>> Steve Kinney: What kind of
language are you all going to make?
>> Speaker 2: Something very lisp-like,
I think.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
you vary this one, yeah.
I think the functional ones
are interesting because it is a different
paradigm, right.
I think there is a bunch of books,
there's,
I think some of the scheme
stuff is really interesting.
There is a little book
called the Little Typer.
Which is about like type systems I think
it'd be like super interesting to like
implemented a type system in a language.
Right, I think like on a learning level
and like understanding the tools,
it's also like really kind of great to
like okay, yeah, a type system, I use it.
But then how does that type
system really work, right?
Like there's gotta be like
a dependency graph and
all of those kind of things like,
how is that implemented?
And like, traditionally when I've had to
implement something myself, even if it's
like on a very fundamental level, like the
depths of understanding that I've had for
that thing is like fundamentally
like radically changed, right?
Like before doing a lot of this
stuff at my job, I had a hand wavy
understanding of what an AST was and
the fact that Bable traversed them.
[LAUGH] Right?
But, and especially like when you pull
the version of the library that's got all
the batteries included, a very complicated
project like Babel, it's on 7.0.
And I think I mean,
how old is Babel now, right?
Like, five years old, least, right?
There's a lot of like extra like
abstractions that that make it really hard
to understand when you kind of even start
with a very like small language implement,
like the ability to diverse a tree and
do the transformations yourself.
With a very limited set of tools
you actually understand like
the fundamental concepts.
That when you see the bigger version,
okay, I can like draw the line from
the like kind of smaller
fundamental version to the bigger.
Like.
there's all these helpers but
I get the core concept but
when you just see the,
I mean it's like that anytime you like
open, crack open like an open social.
I mean today's the day, right.
You see that like getting it to
build is like most of the work.
Right, [LAUGH] And like when you see all
this, I'd be like, this is like way too
complicated, but the patterns are like
relatively, like straightforward.
It's just that yeah, it's the same
reason like for a lot of cases,
if I was like writing this like not for
the sake of teaching.
Like, would I have used more abstractions
to generate the different literals and
stuff along those lines?
Like absolutely.
But would that have hidden
away how everything works?
Totally, right.
And so when you kind of go and
try it for yourself and
do it from a rudimentary level, then when
you see if we had a bunch of functions
where it's like if is number token
create number literal, right?
Like seeing that without having
written it out like by hand,
you would have been like,
neat, some black magic, cool.
But it seemed like yeah,
it's just like, if it's,
if it's got these two properties on it
generate this other object you like,
now have you saw those two functions now,
you'd be like, yeah, I got it like.
Just making the object, I've done that.
So I think a lot of times like
playing with some of these things,
especially the things if
you're interested in it.
Even if like, just trying your hand at it,
I think like adds
a richness to your understanding
that I think is really helpful.
[APPLAUSE]